[MUSIC]
In this video, we are going to talk
about Monte Carlo Tree Search,
a method which is practical and
useful for many purposes.
Exactly this algorithm was
the crucial component of the AlphaGo,
the first algorithm that beated the best
human player in the board game called Go.
So for now, you already know why we need
to explore in reinforcement learning.
Put it simply, exploration is needed
to find originally unknown actions and
states that lead to very large rewards.
And, yes, indeed,
in a model-free setting, we don't know
how the environment will respond to our
reactions and thus don't know the reward.
However, in a model based setting,
this situation is a little bit different.
Let me quickly remind you the differences
between the model-free and
model-based settings.
The key difference lies in their names.
In a model-free setting, we know
nothing about environment dynamics.
That is about probabilities
of the next state and
reward, given current state and action.
In a model-based setting,
however, we are given a model of
the world in either of the two forms.
That is either as a distributional or
a sample model.
Distributional model, also called explicit
model, provides access to the whole
distribution of the next state in
the word given current state and action.
It is doing so
in a form of explicit probabilities.
Such distributional model allows
access to explicit probabilities of
all the possible next states,
s prime and rewards, r for any state and
action and agent might be currently in.
The environment can also be given
in a form of a sample model.
That is out of this model, we can obtain
only samples of the next state and
the reward given current state of action.
But we do not know the explicit
probabilities of this sample.
That this next state in reward are sampled
according to the same distribution
that is given by the distribution
model but in the case of sample model,
we are just not allowed to see
what these probabilities are.
Sample model is also called generative
model in scientific literature.
Now think a little bit about
an exploration in a model-based setting.
Do we need any if we already know what
is their work condition on any state and
any action?
In a model-based learning,
we already know everything, don't we?
Well, in fact, we don't.
What we know in a model-based
setting are immediate towards
that follow arbitrary action
might be in arbitrary state.
But our decisions should not be
granted on immediate rewards but
rather on the global
estimate of the return.
That is, for example, on the value or
action value function.
So the problem here is that being locally
optimal, that is really with respect to
immediate rewards,
doesn't apply being optimal globally.
And we need to recover the global
estimates of optimality, that is value or
action value function.
The solution seems simple.
That just recovers a globally optimal
behavior by simply trying each action and
each state and recording the return
obtained by every policy.
Well, in practice,
such brute force approach is not feasible
because of possible large state and
action spaces.
Thus, a more clever approaches are needed
to solve the problem of recovering
given to model of the word.
These approaches to finding an optimal
solution to sequential decision
making problem in a model-based setting
as fast as possible are called
planning algorithms.
The word planning is a very compound word,
so for the sake of clarity, we define
planning as any process by which the model
of the world is transformed into a policy.
Know that planning algorithm can work
with any form of the environment model.
This setup of planning may be
very unfamiliar to you but
in fact it is not very much different
from what you have already learned.
For example, any model-free algorithm you
know can be used in a model-based setting
by threading the model at hand
at the true environment and
letting an agent interact with it.
Really now but it forbids you to solve
the problem with already familiar methods.
More to say, this approach to learning
is actually used in many algorithms,
especially in the ones which learn
their approximate model of the world
from interactions with the real world.
Nevertheless, you should know that
there are some special algorithms for
planning which may be more efficient.
Algorithm differs a lot depending
on the type of planning
which may be one of background
planning and decision time planning.
Background planning is an approach of
sampling from given environment model,
either true or approximate, and
learning from such samples
with any model-free method.
And a good example of background
planning is dynamic programming.
For example,
when you are doing value iteration,
you cycle through the states to
perform backup in each state.
And you are not focusing
on any particular state.
The second type of planning
is decision-time planning.
As its name suggests, algorithms from
this category make decisions and
perform planning simultaneously sometimes.
To be precise,
in this method, planning is started
after [INAUDIBLE] itself in a new state.
This planning is performed to select
an optimal decision now in current state.
This focusing only on the current state
and not trying to improve the policy
everywhere distinguishes decision-time
planning from background planning.
Once the planning is over or
time is up, an agent commits an action
based on the planning result and
make a transition to the next state.
Usually, but
not always, new information is carried by
the agent between the successive states.
That is after an action is made,
all the planning results may
be thrown away completely.
In both variants of planning,
however, the main idea is the same.
To obtain a perfect policy [INAUDIBLE] the
return that will follow after any action
made in the state we are currently in.
To obtain such knowledge, we, in one form
or another, always do the same thing.
We enroll the local dynamics in time and
accumulate the sequence of
rewards in a single return.
Planning algorithms differ mostly on how
and when such enrolls are performed.
Let's now discuss one of
the simplest approaches to planning.
Well, the simplest approach is
to perform exhaustive search.
That is, start from current status and
roll the environment [INAUDIBLE] for
each possible action in this state,
obtaining the set of new possible
states and immediate rewards.
Then for
each of the next possible states, again,
do the similar [INAUDIBLE] enroll and
so on and so forth.
But what if we aren't given
enough computational resources?
We could continue this process until
every single branch of the tree
reaches one of thermal states.
Then we could perform dynamic programming.
Start from the very bottom of this
backup tree and propagate true value
functions to the very root of the free
using Bellman Opthomology Equations.
However, this algorithm is not practical,
because it may require too much time to
finish planning, even for a single state.
How can we do better?
Well, the simplest way to improve this
algorithm is to stop enrolling as soon
as we have reached some
prespecified depths.
Then perform back out from the leaves and
the depths operate to the root.
This message seems a lot faster
than the previous one, however,
it's myopic,
because it does not account for
reward that the cure deeper that
the depths we have stopped at.
And of this improvement for
this algorithm is to compute approximate
function at the leaves of such three.
You can think about this approximation
as applying approximate value function
at leaves and then propagating these
approximate values backward to the top,
again, using the equation.
The good point is that this
algorithm is a lot more practical.
But can we improve it even further?
Well, yes, in fact, we can.
What we can improve is the selection
of nodes which we unroll or
expand on each iteration.
In the previous algorithm,
this expansion was uniform.
That is the expansion was made for
each and every action available.
However, we might not be interested in
expanding branches that corresponds to
bad values.
That is making actions leading
to the very bad returns.
The more [INAUDIBLE] bad action,
the more precise we are making
the value estimate of this action.
Indeed, each action is obviously bad and
other actions look a lot better.
We do not really need extra precision
in bad action value estimate.
Remember, we are always blending
between precision of estimates and
the computation time.
Instead, we require
the precise estimate only for
the best or close to the best actions.
So to solve a planning task as
fast as possible, we should
expand [INAUDIBLE] actions which are good
candidates to become the best ones.
To give the expansion in the direction
of most promising actions, we can use
any function which correlates with true
returns that our policy's able to achieve.
In artificial intelligence community,
such function is usually
called heuristic function.
And any planning method using
such heuristic function
is called a heuristic search.
However, the heuristic function
in artificial intelligence
is usually hardcoded and never changes.
For example, consider a task of planning
the trip from one city to another
through a lattice of roads.
Each road connects to the cities and
has a cost of traversing it.
Plan is needed to obtain the shortest
possible path from the start
to the goal city.
In such a task,
the heuristic function may be, for
example, the straight line
distance to the target city.
It is surely impossible to drive
in a straight line fashion.
But this heuristic somewhat correlates
with the total driving distance
from the start to the end and thus may
be a good guess in a search process.
The heuristic search in
artificial intelligence community
is an umbrella term unifying
many algorithms with an idea
of lookahead planning guided
by heuristic function.
This function is used to prove unfruitful
branches by estimating the total cost or
a worth that can be obtained from
any single state [INAUDIBLE].
We are going to rely heavily on
this idea of heuristic search.
But we'll use it for more specific purpose
of planning in reinforcement learning.
In reinforcement learning, the heuristic
function corresponds to the value function
and unlike the usual heuristic function,
we might want to refine our
value function over time.
Application of the heuristic search to
planning in reinforcement learning has
many advantages.
Basically resources are focused
only on valuable path and
nearest states contribute
the most to the return.
However, if we don't know
the precise model of the world and
approximate it with some sort
of function approximation,
the model can be in fact worse
than the current value estimate.
In this case, the lookaheads based on
approximate model can spoil the learning
and turn the estimates of a reliable
value function to become less precise.
Remember, it only makes sense to perform
planning in the model of the world
if more precise than the current
value function estimates.
So beware.
Another disadvantage of using heuristic
search is that it obviously depends
on the quality of heuristic.
We will talk about it a little bit later.
One way to obtain heuristic is to
estimate the returns with Monte Carlo.
And I have previously said, if you limit
the horizon of a lookahead search,
we should estimate the value of possible
continuations from the leaves onward.
These leave node values can be computed
with the help of function approximation.
We can learn the state values
with function approximation
as we did it before in
a model-free setting.
However, before today, we were not
allowed to use the model of the world and
now we can try to make use of such a model
instead of relying on complex
parametric function approximation.
More precisely, if we already know the
true reward [INAUDIBLE] an action in each
and every state, probably the most
natural approach is to use this
information by accumulating the reward
along simulated trajectories.
That is we can estimate
the value of any state or
state action [INAUDIBLE]
with Monte Carlo returns.
In particular, while time permits,
we start from state s and
send action a to our model of the world.
Obtain the next state and reward,
then from that state onward,
we place the episode using fixed
policy [INAUDIBLE] the episodes.
Such policy used to estimate the value
by Monte Carlo trajectory sampling
is called rollout policy.
This name stems from playing out
the game from the particular state many,
many times.
That is rolling the game out many times.
By performing such rollouts many,
many times,
we can obtain a reliable estimate of
q function, simply as average return
obtained by our rollout policy from
state s after making action a.
The good point of Monte Carlo estimates
is that it is not needed to use
any function approximation.
It is sufficient to rely only on
the model of the world at hand.
Besides that, each rollout is
totally independent of the others,
which should also perform many rollouts
simultaneously on many CPU [INAUDIBLE].
However, the precision of
the estimates obviously depends
on the number of returns average.
This is again the instance of
a time versus aggressive trade-off.
Another instance of the same trade-off
immediately when we use such
Monte Carlo estimates for
action selection.
[INAUDIBLE] let us see
how to select an action,
given Monte Carlo estimates of return for
each action.
Probably the most straightforward
idea is to select an action
that maximizes a Monte Carlo
value estimate.
That is, to act [INAUDIBLE] with respect
to estimates of action value function.
Actually, this is not only straightforward
but also strikingly similar
to value iteration step applied to our
allowed policy and the single state only.
This one step improvement only
coupled with the fact that we don't
estimate any optimal action value
function that is done estimate q*.
Results in an important conclusion.
If we want our policy
prime to be optimal or
close to optimal, we should make our
rollout policy as good as we can.
That is, we want our rollout policy to
be only one policy improvement step
behind the optimal policy.
However, [INAUDIBLE] are not so easy.
If rollout policy is good,
that may mean it requires much time
to decide what action to make.
And here emerges the second instance
of the time versus accuracy trade-off.
If a policy is a very good one but
a very slow one,
we will not have enough time to
generate sufficiently many rollouts.
This in turn means that during
one step of value iteration,
we will rely on the very noisy
estimates of action-values.
And thus,
the performance may also degrade.
So the disadvantage of such algorithm
is that it obviously relies
on quality of rollout policy.
However, and more surprising,
such algorithm works really well even
if the rollout policy is random.
Also I would like to know that this
algorithm does not preserve any
estimates between successive states.
And this may not be the best thing to do.
Additionally, this algorithm does
not care about uncertainty in its
action value estimates.
In fact, these two last drawbacks
are the ones we are going to fix
in a couple of slides.
But for now, let us briefly summarize
what we have learned so far.
We have talked about planning which
is the process of obtaining a policy
out of the model of the world.
We have noted that in planning,
we have a specific constraint, time.
And many algorithms are designed
to respect this constraint.
We have also discussed that
we may need some sort of
heuristic to make planning
algorithm efficient.
This heuristic should measure approximate
cost of achieving the planning goal
from any particular state onward.
In the case of reinforcement learning,
we have argued that Monte Carlo estimate
of return may be an intuitive heuristic.
And we also can build a policy
on top of such heuristic.
For example, we may act greedily with
respect to Monte Carlo estimates
which will correspond to the one
step of value iteration.
What we have not yet covered is how to
preserve estimates between successive
timestamps, how to deal with
uncertainty in estimates, and
how actually guide the search
with heuristic in a smart way.
Now we are going to discuss this point
through the example of Monte Carlo tree
search algorithm.
[MUSIC]